Document systemdeps (#1730)
OSInside/kiwi: doc/source/concept_and_workflow/systemdeps.rst

.. _systemdeps:

Host Requirements To Build Images
---------------------------------

When building OS images, several tools and sub-systems are used

> and required on the host {kiwi} is called at. For example to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and required on the host {kiwi} is called at. For example, to
```

build a virtual disk image tools to create a partition table
and also tools to create filesystems needs to be present on the

> host that builds the image.

Reviewer: I think I know what you want to express, but the sentence looks a bit too long and complex to me. Could we simplify it?

One idea would be:

    ... to build a virtual disk images, several tools need to be available
    on the host that builds the image.
    This include tools for partition table or tools to create filesystems.

The number of required components depends on the selected image
type and the *features* used with the image. We cannot expect
the users of {kiwi} to know about each and every component that
is needed to build the image. Therefore a concept to help with
the host requirements exists and is named `kiwi-systemdeps`

The `kiwi-systemdeps` concept consists out of a collection of

> sub-packages provided with the `python3-kiwi` main package. Each

Reviewer 2: nit: I'd say the main package should be `python-kiwi` as this is how src package is called.

individual package requires a number of tools and subsystem packages
which belongs to the package category. There are the following
systemdeps packages:

> kiwi-systemdeps-core:

Reviewer: As `kiwi-systemdeps-core` is a package, I would use a monospace font to indicate something "computer-related". I would apply it to every item in this list:

```suggestion
`kiwi-systemdeps-core`:
```

> kiwi-systemdeps-core:

Reviewer: After reading the whole list, the information therein is very similar to each item. Another, alternative presentation could be useful to make it better readable and accessible. Maybe a table or a sublist?

For example, one presentation could be a sublist:

-----
`kiwi-systemdeps-X`:

  * **Purpose**: explains for what it is used for.
  * **Installs**: what it installs
  * **Dependencies**: what dependencies it needs
 -----

I prefer list over tables as tables are a nightmare on smartphones. :smile:  Especially if you have lots of columns.

It's just an idea, don't feel tempted to just revamp all the stuff. :slightly_smiling_face:

Author: I like the idea and adapted the docs as suggested :+1:

  Installs the package managers supported on the target
  distribution as well as the `tar` archiving tool to support

>   building the simple root archive `tbz` image type

Reviewer: Missing dot:

```suggestion
  building the simple root archive `tbz` image type.
```

kiwi-systemdeps-containers:
  Installs the distribution specific tool chain to build OCI
  compliant and WSL container images. The pulled in components

>   are required for building images of the `docker` or `appx`
>   type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  are required for building `docker` or `appx` images types.
```

kiwi-systemdeps-iso-media:

>   Installs all tools required or useful to build ISO filesystems.

Reviewer: Not sure, but I think there is something missing:

```suggestion
  Installs all tools required or are useful to build ISO filesystems.
```

  The package also sets a dependency to the `-core`, `-filesystems`
  and `-bootloaders` kiwi-systemdeps packages. The pulled in

>   components are required for building images of the `iso` type
>   as well as for disk images that request the creation of an
>   install media via the `installiso` attribute.

Reviewer: I would try to split the long sentence into two. My suggestion:

```suggestion
  components are required for building `iso` image types.
  For disk images that request the creation of an
  install media, the `installiso` attribute is needed.
```

kiwi-systemdeps-bootloaders:
  Install all bootloader tools depending on the host architecture
  to allow setup and install of the bootloader. The pulled in
  components are required for any image that is able to boot
  through some BIOS or firmware. The package also sets a dependency
  to the `-core` kiwi-systemdeps packages. Image types which are
  able to boot are of type `oem` or `iso`.

  .. note::

     The `iso` type is an exception which might not require the
     `-bootloaders` systemdeps. In case of the `firmware` attribute
     to be set to `bios`, {kiwi} builds bootable ISO images still
     based on isolinux which is provided with the `-iso-media`

>      systemdeps. However, by default any {kiwi} created ISO image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     systemdeps. However, by default, any {kiwi} created ISO image
```

     is BIOS and EFI capable and based on the grub bootloader which
     causes a requirement to the `-bootloaders` systemdeps.
  
kiwi-systemdeps-filesystems:
  Installs all tools to create filesystems supported with {kiwi}.
  The pulled in components are needed for any image type except
  for those that build just archives like `docker`, `appx` or
  `tbz`. The package also installs tools one level below the
  actual filesystem creation toolkit. These are components to
  manage loop devices as well as partition table setup and

>   subsystem support for e.g LVM and LUKS. The package also sets a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  subsystem support like LVM and LUKS. The package also sets a
```

  dependency to the `-core` kiwi-systemdeps packages.

kiwi-systemdeps-disk-images:

>   Installs all tools to create virtual disks. In {kiwi} virtual disks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Installs all tools to create virtual disks. In {kiwi}, virtual disks
```

  are created using the QEMU toolchain. The pulled in components are
  required for the `oem` image type. The package also sets a dependency
  to the `-filesystems` and `-bootloaders` kiwi-systemdeps packages.

kiwi-systemdeps-image-validation:
  Installs the `jing` tool to validate the image description. This is
  useful for detailed error reports from {kiwi} in case of an image

>   description validation error. In addition the `anymarkup` python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  description validation error. In addition, the `anymarkup` Python
```

  module is installed if the the option to install recommended packages
  is set. With `anymarkup` available, {kiwi} can also handle image

>   descriptions in another than the XML markup, e.g YAML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  descriptions in another format than the XML markup, like YAML.
```
